# Coinfloor Authentication Process

[WebSocket clients](WEBSOCKET-README.md) authenticate by sending an authentication message containing a numeric user identifier, a cookie (described as an API key on the Coinfloor website), a nonce chosen by the client, and an [ECDSA][] signature. The signature covers the user identifier, a nonce chosen by the server (which is transmitted to the client upon its connecting to the server), and the nonce chosen by the client. The connection is secured using TLS.

## Protocol

Authentication to the WebSocket server is by a `Welcome` notification sent to the client and an `Authenticate` command sent by the client.

* The `Welcome` notification contains a `nonce` field, whose value is a base64-encoded nonce that has been randomly generated by the server. The nonce is 16 bytes, and the base64 encoding transforms it into a 24-character string. This 16-byte nonce is hereafter referenced as the *server nonce*.
* The `Authenticate` command contains the following fields:
	* **`user_id`:** *(integer)* The unique numeric identifier of the authenticating user.
	* **`cookie`:** *(string)* A base64-encoded value that varies by user but is fixed for each specific user. In the Coinfloor web interface, this authentication cookie is called an "API Key."
	* **`nonce`:** *(string)* A base64-encoded nonce that has been randomly generated by the client. The nonce is 16 bytes, and the base64 encoding transforms it into a 24-character string. This 16-byte nonce is hereafter referenced as the *client nonce*.
	* **`signature`:** *(pair of strings)* The base64-encoded *r* and *s* values of an [ECDSA][] signature over the SHA-224 digest of a message consisting of the concatenation of the 8-byte (big-endian) user identifier, the 16-byte server nonce, and the 16-byte client nonce. The signature uses the **secp224k1** curve parameters published by the [Standards for Efficient Cryptography Group][SECG] in [SEC 2: Recommended Elliptic Curve Domain Parameters version 2.0][SEC2] ([mirror][SEC2-mirror]). The private key used in signing is the 224-bit (big-endian) integer interpretation of the SHA-224 hash of the concatenation of the 8-byte (big-endian) user identifier and the UTF-8-encoded passphrase of the user.

### Example

Suppose a client whose user identifier is 1 and whose passphrase is "opensesame" wishes to authenticate to the WebSocket server.

1. The client connects to the server and performs the WebSocket handshake.

1. The server sends a `Welcome` notification:

	```json
	{
		"notice": "Welcome",
		"nonce": "azRzAi5rm1ry/l0drnz1vw=="
	}
	```

1. The client decodes the server nonce into these 16 bytes:

		0x6b347302 2e6b9b5a f2fe5d1d ae7cf5bf

	(N.B: Spaces are shown for the sake of clarity and do not denote elements of the actual value.)

1. The client randomly generates a 16-byte client nonce:

		0xf08c98ca f1fd82e8 cea9825d bff04fd0

1. The client encodes the client nonce using base64:

		8IyYyvH9gujOqYJdv/BP0A==

1. The client's cookie is:

		HGREqcILTz8blHa/jsUTVTNBJlg=

1. The client constructs a 40-byte message to sign, consisting of its user identifier, the server nonce, and the client nonce:

		0x00000000 00000001
		0x6b347302 2e6b9b5a f2fe5d1d ae7cf5bf
		0xf08c98ca f1fd82e8 cea9825d bff04fd0

1. The client constructs a seed for its private key, consisting of its user identifier and UTF-8-encoded passphrase:

		0x00000000 00000001
		0x6f70656e 73657361 6d65

1. The client hashes its seed using SHA-224 to obtain its private key:

		0xb89ea7fc d22cc059 c2673dc2 4ff40b97 83074646 86560d0a d7561b83

1. The client [signs][ECDSA] the 28-byte SHA-224 digest of the 40-byte message using its private key under **secp224k1** and obtains, for example:

		r = 0x3fb77a9d 7b5b2a68 209e76f6 872078c5 791340d5 989854ad a3ab735e
		s = 0x34b84341 2f18a910 f18a7d4c e1d35978 60e6345b 22bf7894 cf67780a

	The [sign_secp224k1][] utility may be used to produce the signature.

1. The client encodes the signature using base64:

		P7d6nXtbKmggnnb2hyB4xXkTQNWYmFSto6tzXg==
		NLhDQS8YqRDxin1M4dNZeGDmNFsiv3iUz2d4Cg==

1. The client sends an `Authenticate` command to the server:

	```json
	{
		"method": "Authenticate",
		"user_id": 1,
		"cookie": "HGREqcILTz8blHa/jsUTVTNBJlg=",
		"nonce": "8IyYyvH9gujOqYJdv/BP0A==",
		"signature": [
			"P7d6nXtbKmggnnb2hyB4xXkTQNWYmFSto6tzXg==",
			"NLhDQS8YqRDxin1M4dNZeGDmNFsiv3iUz2d4Cg=="
		]
	}
	```

1. The server verifies the cookie and signature and returns a success response:

	```json
	{
		"error_code": 0
	}
	```


[API]: https://github.com/coinfloor/API/blob/master/WEBSOCKET-README.md
[ECDSA]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elliptic_Curve_DSA
[SECG]: http://www.secg.org/
[SEC2]: http://www.secg.org/download/aid-784/sec2-v2.pdf
[SEC2-mirror]: http://www.shield-kratos.com/pdf/sec2-v2.pdf
[sign_secp224k1]: https://github.com/coinfloor/libecp#sign_secp224k1
